You will see that with so
many cortex, the open source cortex,
IT cortex, Cal-based cortex,
there are many proprietary cortex.
Assisting the cortex voice quality becomes
almost an art and a science by itself.
We can use traditional metrics like SNR.
Signal to Noise Ratio and
segmentive SNR [COUGH] as shown here.
SNR essentially is
the ratio of signal power.
X squared xn squared or certain window and
the arrow that the anchor that is xn,
minus x,
reconstructed end or,
the complete signal, not just on faith.
The segmental lesson r does the same
thing, but breaks the signal into
key segments, and
finds the average over the k segments but,
the problem is that these tools,
these metrics work very well for
wave form cortex but not at all for
parametric and perceptual cortex.
The speech production model is not
well captured in the SNR metric.
So it may tell you that
the SNR is poor but
the signal reconstructor quality
might be very good or vice versa.
Well it might not be vice
versa of course only one bit.
So most codec assessments are done
by subjective experiments.
As odd as it sounds, this is how it falls.
You get a group of people,
put them together, and
[COUGH] ask them to listen
to decoded signals and
you also put some reference signals for
which you already know the quality
and they're asked to assign
a value between one to five.
That's the MOS scale.
So five is excellent.
One is really bad and
the other five in between.
There are some caveats with
prospect to reading the MOS scores.
You cannot really compare MOS
scores from one study to another.
There are way too many variables with
the lapse in voice with the subjects.
The reference signals that you have used,
but still by looking at the MOS values
you do get some insight on
to the quality of the codec.
So, these are the codecs
from one study by Cisco.
In this G.711 is 4.1.
So that’s the tone quality.
The 726 ADPCM uses more bits than AMR,
but it has lower quality.
It's also lower latency,
and lower complexity.
You can see that AMR, and
GSM full rate use the same number of bits,
4.2 killobits per second, but
the AMR is a lot more complex and
it has much better quality.
So within one study you can go ahead and
make such assessments.
So the standards bodies go through
considerable effort in picking algorithms
for their next question of Kodak and
they do extensive characterization.
These are th results from AMR
wide band characterization.
The first three bars that you see
are the G.7XS series wide band cortex and
the remaining bars are band
at increasing rates.
So you can see the quality
go up consistently and,
codecs operate at multiple,
constant bitrates.
Whereas the codex for CDMA and
3GPP2, they are all
variable bitrate codex.
The DEVRC and Q-CELP the older version.
They changes the number of bits used for
each frame,
based on the speech
characteristics themselves.
So the rate is driven by
the source characteristics.
So this results in full rate,
half rate, quarter rate, and
eighth rate packets and
this is shown conceptually in this picture
and you can actually control
the ascent of the number of,
the probability of each weird packet,
and hence control the average data rate.
When a user drops their average data rate,
they offer that much less
interference to the other users
in the system and hence,
the capacity increases in CDMA.
So the average data rate drop immediately
results in system capacity
increases in CDMA.
So here are the results of one of the
categorization tests I found on the web.
The EVRC-B is a replacement for
EVRC and so
that is used as the anchor code and
as you can see it performs the EVRC-B,
performs as well as the old
one it's replacing and
also it provides three
different data rates at
which this particular test was connected.
So the mass tests are really a burden,
they take a long time
and so there are some objective
metrics that have been doubled up and
standardized to mimic
the mass testing done for
the LPC and Kelp class of codecs.
The ITU standards for
these metrics are PESQ and POLQA.
That's the Perceptual Evaluation
of Speech Quality and
Perceptual Objective
Listening Quality Assessment.
So I just put up this broad diagram here.
I'm not gonna go through it but
essentially it tries to incorporate
the perceptual information
into the metric itself
instead of a blind signal to
noise ratio measurement.
These tools are very good for
trying out various algorithms
during a codec development,
that is to look at incremental
gains within the same system but
they are not good at comparing
across different approaches.
So the case in point, the task was found
to underpredict the quality of EVRC
consistently at all bitrates and
consistently over-predicted the quality
of AMR 12.2 but in a MOS test,
this was not actually the case.
So since this is a very competitive
business, the network operators and
the device renders are all in
competition for subscribers.
So this was not a good thing.
So if you have a brand new
approach that asks all of
this objective tool that you're
trying to use, had never seen before,
you would not want to use that
particular tool during your development.
That's really my take away message for
using objective metrics than in
developing new codec algorithms.